Speaker 1 (00:02):

Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States, Donald J. Trump.

President Donald J. Trump (00:13):

Thank you very much. Thank you. This is a big deal. This is a very big deal. People are going to save a lot of money and be healthy. So we're here this evening to celebrate the launch of one of the most transformative healthcare initiatives of all time. There's never been anything like it. Starting tonight, dozens of the most commonly used prescription drugs will be available at dramatic discounts for all consumers throughout a new website. It's called trumprx.gov. That's trumprx.gov. For years, politicians from both parties have promised to bring down prescription drug prices and make healthcare more affordable, but they all failed. It was all words as usual. They failed and they failed badly. They tried doing this. Some of them, most of them didn't even try, 'cause they never really had a shot at it. But I'm actually getting it done, and it is done, actually.

(01:17)
This launch represents the largest reduction in prescription drug prices in history by many, many times, and it's not even close. You're going to see numbers that you're not going to believe. Americans have long been paying the highest drug prices anywhere in the world, while other countries often paid pennies on the dollar for the exact same drugs. We were essentially subsidizing the entire world and subsidizing by hundreds of billions of dollars every year. The United States is just 4% of the world's population and consumes only 13% of all prescription drugs, yet pharmaceutical companies have been making 75% from these drugs. Think of it. 75% of the money they made came from the United States with a smaller population than what we will call the world. The American people were effectively subsidizing the cost of drugs for the entire world, and it's not going to happen any longer.

(02:16)
We ended it. Everybody knew it was unfair for 30 years, but nobody did anything about it. Under the most favored nation agreements, my administration has negotiated. The United States will pay the lowest price paid by any other country. So we're taking the lowest price paid for drugs. We will pay equal to whatever the lowest price anywhere in the world, that's the price that you're going to be paying. It's a tremendous reduction. Drug prices in other nations will go up by doing this. They had to agree. And the reason they agreed is I use tariffs. I said, "If you don't put them up, then we're going to put tariffs in your nation, which will be more expensive to you." So in many cases, the drug costs will go up by double and even triple for them, but they're going way down for the United States, come all the way down by a difference of as much as 300, 400, 500, even 600%, even more than that in some cases.

(03:17)
For example, you will see dramatic reductions in the cost of popular weight loss drugs known as GLP-1s, GLP-1s. Novo Nordisk will be slashing the price as an example of Ozempic from more than $1,000 to $199. And the price of Wegovy from more than $1,300 to $199, nobody can even believe it. A 578% difference. Eli Lilly, who's been very helpful to us in getting this done, will be cutting the cost of its common insulin drug and medication from $200 to $25. Nobody can believe it. $200 to $25. AstraZeneca slashing the price of a common inhaler from $458 to $51, a difference of nearly 800%. And we're also delivering historic discounts for couples struggling with infertility as EMD Serono will dramatically cut the cost of its most common IVF drugs. For example, a single dose of the most common IVF drug in the country, Gonal F will plummet from the highest price in the developed world that we paid.

(04:45)
The United States was subsidizing everybody. We paid the highest to the lowest price in the world, which will be demonstrating very shortly. We have some very talented people coming up and showing how it's going to work and how the website works. All of these discounts and more will be available directly to consumers starting today at trumprx.gov. In just a moment, we will demonstrate how you can go to the website, get a coupon, and pick up your heavily discounted prescription drugs. Highest level drugs, the highest level company, finest in the world, biggest in the world, most powerful drug companies in the world. And we had to go through them, and then we had to get all of these countries worldwide to lower their prices. And for us, help us lower our price. And what they did is, again, their prices went up by double, triple, and even sometimes four and five times.

(05:42)
But the dozens of commonly used drugs available today are just the beginning. 16 of the 17 largest pharmaceutical companies have signed agreements, and the other one is coming. Believe me, they're coming, committing that going forward, all new medicines they bring to the market of the United States will be available at most favored nation prices. For those that don't know, that means in the entire world, most favored, we get the most favored, the lowest price. So if somebody gets a great price, that's great for us because we get it. So this is the exact opposite of what's been happening for the last 30 plus years. This policy, which is a key pillar of the great healthcare plan, is going to bring copays plummeting down and save Americans billions and billions of dollars making healthcare much more affordable, like at a level that you couldn't believe. In my first administration, I kept drugs pretty even.

(06:41)
I thought I was doing a great job, but this is really the great job. There's never been anything like it. Nobody thought it was possible to get it done. It's the biggest thing to happen in healthcare, I think, in many, many decades. Under these agreements, the top pharmaceutical companies will also be investing hundreds of billions of dollars to bring drug manufacturing back to America. It's already happening. They're building plants all over the country. Eli Lilly is building six plants with billions and billions of dollars each, which means jobs, economic growth, factory openings, and far greater national security. And it's really a big factor was the tariffs. We're charging very substantial tariffs for companies that don't want to make their drugs or pharmaceuticals and automobiles and other things. If they don't want to make them in the United States, they have to pay very big penalties in the form of tariffs.

(07:34)
And what that means is they're all coming here. Every industry is coming here. We're taking in more than $18 trillion into the United States because of tariffs of companies. The only way they can avoid them is to build here, they avoid paying the tariff. Now, they've been doing that countries to us for 30 years. That's how we lost so much business. They were drying up our country. We were losing factories. We were losing jobs like nobody's ever seen for many, many years. And now it's all been reversed and we've never had a period. It's just the wealthiest our country has ever been. We have hundreds of billions of dollars a year pouring in and we're taking advantage of it. I want to give a special thanks to Airbnb co-founder and now, much more importantly, the Chief Design Officer of the United States, Joe Gebbia, and the entire team at the National Design Studio.

(08:32)
They're unbelievably talented people. This group of geniuses could be doing anything right now. They could have been making a big fortune out there, but they decided they want to be with the government and do exactly what you're going to see tonight, and also some other things having to do with our country. And I want to thank Joe. With their help, our American by design initiative will fully transform our most dated federal systems and services, providing Americans the richest, most beautiful, and most user-friendly government experience in the entire world. We have the greatest designers in the entire world, and they're with our country. They love our country. That's why they're doing it. So now I'd like to invite administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, an incredible guy, a really brilliant man. Dr. Mehmet Oz to show us how this beautiful new website works. And Dr. Oz, come on and let's see what you can tell us. Thank you, by the way. Everybody, you're going to save a fortune. And this is also so good for overall healthcare. And Oz, you've done a fantastic job. Thank you very much.

Dr. Mehmet Oz (09:41):

Thank you, sir. So you demanded, President demanded that we have most favorite nation drug pricing, which he explained beautifully. Today, you can now get access to these steeply discounted prices. All the hard work the President and the administration have done now is yours, but you have to go check trumprx.gov. So if you have access, please log on right now. It's free. You get to look at all the prices and you should not be buying drugs anymore going forward without at least checking to see if those medications are available at these discounted prices on trumprx.gov. That stated, Mr. President, many people don't appreciate this, but one of the most special things you've been able to do besides negotiating these kinds of deals is bringing wonderful people around you who can actually fulfill the dream of making drugs accessible so Americans no longer suffer that affordability issue.

(10:34)
One in three Americans are turned away from the drugstore that can't afford the drugs. No more. Our most vulnerable are protected. To do that, you need brilliant software engineers. And Ed Coristine led a wonderful group that you hired. Folks, again, would never normally have come to the government to work to make this possible. And Joe, just a superstar, and he's going to take us through the website.

Joe Gebbia (10:53):

Thanks, Dr. Oz. Mr. President, I've-

President Donald J. Trump (10:54):

Thank you, Joe.

Joe Gebbia (10:55):

... launched some big websites, and this is one I think you're going to be very proud of. So you mentioned Gonal F. I think this is an interesting drug that we can check and see how do you find a drug on the site. So we'll pull up the website here. This is trumprx.gov. And I'm going to start at the search bar where I can search by the drug name. So I type in Gonal F and I see it auto completes. When I click on this, I have a beautiful page that shows the drug product. And right at the top, I see this is 83% off the original price. Now, how do I get this discount? I take this coupon and I bring it to the pharmacy. I can print it out. I can add it to my wallet on my phone, whether it's an Apple or an Android.

(11:38)
I show it to the pharmacist and I get the coupon credit right at the register. Now, this is an intelligent site. We know that there's other drugs that are commonly prescribed along with this. So we surface them here and they work with the same coupon. Okay. Next, what pharmacies can you go to get this drug? It's a smart site. We pull up exactly where you can go to get this. Now, Gonal F is a specialty drug, so you get it through the mail. I can call any one of these pharmacies and they deliver it straight to my home. It's that simple.

Dr. Mehmet Oz (12:10):

Mr. President, one in three families is having trouble having a baby. We're going to have a lot of Trump babies with these costs. Folks cannot afford these medications, it's going to change their lives. Now, this is the tip of the iceberg 'cause Joe did a lot more with Ed and the rest of the National Design Studio.

Joe Gebbia (12:25):

That's right.

Dr. Mehmet Oz (12:25):

How many more medications do you have?

Joe Gebbia (12:26):

Well, the website launches with over 40 medications. Ones that are the popular medications and ones that were previously very expensive. These are things like asthma inhalers, the GLP-1s. And on TrumpRX, you can actually find things like the weight loss shots and also new form factors like the weight loss pill. Let's click on this and see the discount for the pill. 89% off the original price. As you mentioned, Americans for the first time are getting the lowest cost price drugs like the rest of the world is, and we're not done. We're adding more and more drugs week over week. So going forward, it's an invitation to the nation to check trumprx.gov anytime you get a prescription.

Dr. Mehmet Oz (13:11):

Mr. President, we're breaking news. This weight loss shot that you've talked about a lot, this is a weight loss pill. And with these pills, which are actually even less expensive than the shots, we project that America will lose about a hundred million pounds this year, which is going to make not only folks a lot healthier, but a lot easier to manage when they do get ill. But I'm particularly drawn, as I know you are, to the plight of folks, young couples trying to have children. And that first medication, one of the first ones we did most [inaudible 00:13:38] drug pricing on has helped immense number of folks, but the first person to use trumprx.gov to buy Gonal F is here. And I wanted to introduce her to you, if you don't mind. Katherine's with us. Perfect. Secretary Kennedy's going to escort her.

Katherine (13:59):

Good evening. I'm incredibly honored to be here tonight. I'm a military spouse and my husband and I have been navigating infertility and IVF for five years, a journey that has included profound loss. Through that experience, we have come to understand how critical access to affordable fertility medication truly is. Medications like Gonal F and access to them have been essential to our treatment and to our hope of success. IVF demands extraordinary physical and emotional strength, but for so many families, the financial burden can be just as heavy and at times overwhelming. The President's leadership on price transparency and on reducing the costs of medications, some of which are essential in my fertility treatments has a real and immediate impact. Families like ours, it can mean the difference between being able to continue treatment or having no choice but to stop. These efforts help ensure that IVF remains within reach for families who are doing everything that they can to build a future. Families who should not have to choose between financial stability and the chance to have a child. For that commitment and leadership, we are greatly thankful. Thank you.

President Donald J. Trump (15:19):

Thank you very much. Wow [inaudible 00:15:24]. That's great. Well, Oz and everybody, I want to thank you for the job, Joe. What a job you do. Bobby is back here who is so instrumental. He's doing such a fantastic job. Who would have thought a Kennedy, we love a Kennedy in the Republican Party, but there's been no better advocate for what we're doing than Bobby Kennedy Jr. So I just want to leave you with this. You're going to save tremendous amounts of money. Go to the site. We have many of them and in a very short period of time, we'll have just about all of them and they'll be available for differences of five, six, 700%, even in some cases more than that. We're tired of subsidizing the world. We have to put America first. If you think about it, that's exactly what we're doing. We want to take care of everybody, but we have to put America first.

(16:13)
So this is going to have a huge impact on healthcare, no matter which plan they come up with. Drugs and prescription drugs, they form a big part. And now you're going to be getting those drugs at numbers, not with a one or two or a 10% discount, but think of it 80%, 90% in some cases, numbers that nobody's even thought possible. So I just want to thank our entire team. They have so many people here that have worked so hard. And again, Joe and Oz and Bobby, thank you very much. Great job. And congratulations to you on all that money you're saving, okay.

Katherine (16:46):

[inaudible 00:16:48].

President Donald J. Trump (16:47):

Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much.